Even Kobe impressed by 'Lin-sational' Knicks
By Tom Pedulla, USA TODAY

NEW YORK - Point guard Jeremy Lin proved his shocking four-game rise from obscurity to stardom is to be believed by pouring in a career-high 38 points in leading the New York Knicks past the Los Angeles Lakers 92-85 on Friday night before a sellout crowd of 19,763 at Madison Square Garden.

"Lin-sanity" reached a fever pitch on Broadway and beyond as the first American-born player of Chinese or Taiwanese descent outgunned Lakers legend Kobe Bryant (34 points). The Knicks snapped a nine-game losing streak to the Lakers with their first victory since a 107-106 decision on Feb. 13, 2007.

"This is a once-in-a-lifetime thing," Knicks coach Mike D'Antoni said of the four-game tour de force by the undrafted Harvard graduate who was cut by the Golden State Warriors and Houston Rockets. "I don't know what to tell you. I have never seen it."

The second-year guard added a game-high seven assists to go with four rebounds and two steals, and his 38 points is a Knicks season high. In leading New York to victory in the last four games he has tallied 114 points with 32 assists, 15 rebounds and seven steals - and 17 turnovers.

And Bryant, who had said he didn't know anything about what Lin had been accomplishing this week, was impressed.

"He has been phenomenal," Bryant said. "We have watched some tape on him. We came up with a strategy that we thought would be effective, but he was knocking down his jump shot, penetrating and he got around our guards.

"Players don't usually come out of nowhere. If you can go back and take a look, his skill level was probably there from the beginning, but no one ever noticed. It is a great story. It is a testament to perseverance and hard work. It is a good example to kids everywhere."

Lin's only struggle is to explain what has allowed the 23-year-old to become an overnight sensation. As Knicks teammate Tyson Chandler said, "I don't think I've ever seen anybody come from the end of the bench to have that kind of impact."

"I don't know," Lin said. "I think it's a combination of the system, being able to fit into the system, being comfortable, building confidence and playing on a team that is so unselfish."

That selflessness starts with the soft-spoken Lin, who needed a strong game against a power such as Los Angeles to validate previous accomplishments against the New Jersey Nets, Utah Jazz and Washington Wizards. He delivered, displaying a soft jump shot, exceptional court awareness and an uncanny knack for weaving his way to the basket.

"He got 38 points in the context of team basketball," said D'Antoni. "That really says it all."

Resurgent New York improved to 12-15 despite being without veteran stars Carmelo Anthony (strained groin) and Amar'e Stoudemire, who is with his family following the death of his older brother Hazell.

"I am sure (Lin) has put in a great deal of work to always have that belief in himself. Now he has the opportunity to show it," Bryant said. "It will be fun for the city here, obviously. Once they get Carmelo back, it should be a lot of fun."

Stoudemire tweeted after the game: "Thanks to Jeremy Lin & The Knicks, Y'all help me get my mind off my Bro for a few hours, Thx. Great game guys. Enjoy the win. Travel safe."

It wasn't much fun for the Lakers, who appeared sluggish for much of the game after rallying for an overtime victory Thursday at the Boston Celtics, slipped to 15-12. Bryant struggled from the floor, hitting just 11 of 29 from the field.

The 6-3 Lin connected on 13 of 23 attempts, including 2 of 4 from three-point range, as well as 10 of 13 free throws. His storybook emergence brought stars to courtside such as film director Spike Lee, comedian Woody Allen, actor Ben Stiller and various members of the newly-crowned Super Bowl champion New York Giants.

Lee tweeted after the game: "Jeremy"Kobe Wuz Smokin' But I Wasn't Joke-"Lin. Tonight Was NO FLUKE. I Seen It Wit' My Own 4 EYES. JLin Is LEGIT.NBA DEAL WITH IT.YA-DIG???"

"I am really not too worried about proving anything to anybody," Lin said. "As a team, we are growing and I think everyone is buying into it and that is why we are becoming more dangerous."

D'Antoni is optimistic his team has finally filled its greatest need, albeit in a manner no one expected. "This was hard to predict. It's like winning the lottery," he said. "You buy a ticket and hope, but there is no guarantee it's going to happen."

The Knicks are capitalizing not only on Lin's on-court ability but also his sudden popularity. Go to the team's web site and you are met with the promotion, "Want the latest 'Lin-Sanity' news & videos? There's an app for that!"

The team also is hawking Lin shirts, available online at NYKnicksStore.com. USA TODAY's Michael McCarthy reports home and away Jeremy Lin Adidas Revolution Knicks jerseys are selling for $54 a pop. The Adidas numbered road game T-shirts go for $24.95, while the Adidas "Linsanity" T-shirts cost $19.95.

According to Delivery Agent, the partner that powers the Knicks' Online Store and Facebook Accounts, sales and traffic are up more than 3,000% in the past week.

The fascination with Lin extends well beyond the USA. "Everyone in Taiwan is crazy about him. Everyone is talking about Jeremy Lin," said Kate Lin (no relation) of China TV Taiwan. "Everyone in Taiwan is so proud of him, that he can play in the NBA."

The broadcaster believes he serves as an important role model. "He shows Asian people that, if you work hard and never give up, you can be a star," she said.

New York center Tyson Chandler praised the overnight sensation for his ability to balance sudden off-court demands with pre-game preparation.

"The way he goes about things, you would never know all of this was going on," said Chandler, adding, "He's the same guy who was coming here early, fighting for a 10-day contract."

Lin said his goal for this year was to begin to earn meaningful playing time. He averaged 2.6 points and 9.8 minutes last year as a Golden State rookie.

"I really told myself this year I wanted to be in the rotation and not be the 12th to 15th guy on the team," Lin said.

Lin credited his faith with helping to sustain him during periods of uncertainty.

"I try to trust in God and whatever circumstances he puts me through, grow as a person," he said.

Lin was without a guaranteed contract before Friday. He has been living with his brother, a dental student at New York University, and sister-in-law and even spent one night on a couch provided by fellow guard Landry Fields. Lin now has a one-year deal worth the league minimum of $762,195.

His desire to protect his privacy became readily apparent when Lin was asked if he finally has a place of his own to call home.

"Maybe," he said.
EOF
